Our first task is to load and inspect the data.
We've made two text files available on the course site,
and they contain the data needed in this case study.
The two files are called whiskies.txt and regions.txt.
The regions file contains the regions in which each of the whiskies produced.
The whiskies file contains all other details about the whiskies.
Let's start by importing both NumPy and pandas.

  import numpy as np
  import pandas as pd

At this point, make sure to change your working directory
to match the location of the whiskies and regions files.
In the text files, the entries on each row are separated by commas.
These type of files are known as a comma separated values file or as CSV file.
We'll first read whiskies into a pandas data frame object,
and we'll read regions and add that as a column to the whisky object.
We can read the CSV file using pandas read_CSV method.
The file name is whiskies.txt, and I will capture this as whisky.

  whisky = pd.read_csv("whiskies.txt")

We'll then read the second file, I'm going
to add this into my whisky object.
I'm going to add it as an extra column, and I will call that column region.

  whisky["Region"] = pd.read_csv("regions.txt")

Let's take a look at these files using the head and tail methods.
These are the first five rows of the data frame.

  whisky.head()

Look at the last five use of tail methods.

  whisky.tail()

It looks like the data has been read incorrectly.
We can use the iloc method to index a data frame by location.
Let's practice its use.
We'll type whisky.iloc, and we've can first specify the rows.
In this case, we specify the rows from 0 to 10.
As with standard Python, the start index is inclusive
whereas the end index is exclusive.
That means the last row corresponding to index 10 is not included.

  whisky.iloc[0:10]

We can use the same method to look at specific columns and specific rows.
We can look at rows from 5 to 10, and we can look at columns from 0 to 5.
The first 5 to 10 corresponds to rows, and the 0 to 5
corresponds to our columns.

  whisky.iloc[5:10, 0:5]

Some of the columns corresponding to whisky flavor attributes.
Let's find out which ones.
If we type whisky.columns, panda lists us
the names of the different columns of our data frame object.

  whisky.columns

In this case, we would like to look at all of the columns starting from body
and ending at floral, floral included.
We can construct the flavors object of flavors data frame
by looking at our whisky object.

  flavors = whisky.iloc[:, 2:14]

We use the iloc method.
We specify all of the rows.
And then we extract all of the columns that correspond to flavors.
In this case, Body is the first column that corresponds to a flavor.
Its location is 2.
And the last column to be included is Floral.
Its location is 13, but to include that in the slice,
we need to specify 14 as the end of the column slice.
We can now look at our flavors.
And in this case, it looks like we've extracted the correct columns
and rows from our table.
