JP ONNELA: In this case, we know what the true slope is,
but it would be useful to see how we could estimate this simple model using
Python.
I'm going to do this using the stats models library.
If you're used to statistical programming language like R,
you might find the stats models library familiar to work with.
We're going to start by importing the stats models library as sm.
So we say import statsmodels.api as sm.
We're going to define a mod object by saying sm.OLS.
OLS stands for ordinary least squares.
And we need an argument inside the parentheses.
The first is y, which is our y-values.
The second one is x, our predictor values.
Then we can form our estimate by calling the mod object--
I'm sorry, we first fit that.
And then we can say print est.summary, which
gives us a summary of the model of the fitted model object.
Let's see what happens.

  import statsmodels.api as sm
  mod = sm.OLS(y, x)
  est = mod.fit()
  print(est.summary())

Let's look at the model output.
We see that we fitted a model with a single variable, x1.
And the estimated coefficient is 2.7.
That seems a little bit high, given that we
know that the true value should be 2.0.
So what happened here?
In this case, we've actually fitted a slightly different model,
a model that has a slope, but no intercept,
meaning that there is no constant term in the model.
This means that the line is forced to go through 0, which
is why the slope is artificially large.
Let's take a look at that on the whiteboard.
We know that our data should look something like this.
And there is some true slope here, which would be 2.
But because we are fitting a model that doesn't have an intercept term,
we're actually fitting a line that is forced
to go through the origin, the point over here.
The least squares criterion will now force this line
to go something like this, and therefore, the slope
of the line that we just estimated, this guy over here,
is going to be higher than the true slope, which
is the slope for this line.
Let's now try to fit a slightly different model, a model that includes
the constant, the intercept term.
So I'm going to define x as sm.add_constant,
which is one of the methods that's available in this library.
So lower case x is the x I had before.
I'm now going to be building another variable, which
is capital X, which is the same as x, but includes one column of 1s.
Then we take the model.
We define a new model object.
I'm going to call that mod.
We continue to do OLS.
We have our outcome y, but now we need the capital X, the one
that has the constants added to it.
We'll estimate this model-- we'll fit the model by saying mod.fit,
and then we can print out the summary, saying print est.summary.
And let's try running the code.

  X = sm.add_constant(x)
  mod = sm.OLS(y, X)
  est = mod.fit()
  print(est.summary())

In this case, we can see we have two predictors in the model.
We have the constant term, which has been estimated as 5.2,
and then we have a coefficient to go with the predictor x1, which
has been estimated as 1.9685.
And this value, of course, is very close to the true value 2.0.
This looks better.
Now we've included an intercept in the model,
and we've also estimated its value.
But how should we interpret these coefficients?
The intercept 5.2 is the value of the outcome y
when all predictors, here just x1, are set to 0.
The slope has a somewhat different interpretation,
which is that an increase of 1 in the value of x1
is associated with an increase of 1.97 in the value of the outcome y.
The output also includes standard errors of the estimates,
which tell us how precisely the parameter values have been estimated.
Imagine generating a new sample of data and feeding the model
to this new sample.
In this case, we would get a somewhat different estimate
for intercept and slope.
If we repeated this process many times, always generating a new data set,
and fitting the model to this new data set,
we would end up with a distribution of estimates for the intercept
and another distribution of estimates for the slope.
These distributions are known as sampling distributions of the parameter
estimates.
Let's focus on the sampling distribution of the slope estimates.
The standard deviation of this distribution
is known as the standard error of the slope.
The smaller the standard error, the more precisely it's
being estimated, meaning that the more we've
been able to learn about its value from the data.
We can take the value of the standard error, multiply it by 2,
or 1.96 to be exact, and add this number to the point estimate of the intercept.
Similarly, we can subtract this number from the point estimate.
Doing this gives us the 95% confidence interval, which
is also shown as part of the output.
Since 0 is not contained in that confidence interval, in this case,
we can be sure that the value of the true slope, the parameter whose
value we're trying to learn, is not 0.
So how well did we do?
The output summary includes the so-called r-squared statistic,
which is the proportion of variance explained.
And because it's a proportion, it's always between 0 and 1.
But what does variance explained actually mean?
Before we fit our model, we can compute what
is called the total sum of squares, or TSS, which
is defined as the sum of the squared differences between outcome
yi and the mean outcome.
Now after we've created the model, we compute a similar quantity
called the residual sum of squares, RSS, which
is defined as the sum of the squared differences between the outcome yi
and the outcome predicted by the model yi hat.
If the model is useful at all, we would expect
the RSS is to be smaller than the TSS.
The r-squared statistic takes the difference between TSS and RSS,
and then divides that quantity by TSS.
A number near 0, therefore, indicates that the model did not
explain much of the variability in the response or the outcome.
Larger values are better, but what values of r-squared are considered good
always depends on the application context.

COMPREHENSION Qs:
1. If the true intercept were negative but the regression model did not include an intercept term, what would that imply for the estimated slope?
>>> The estimated slope would likely be lower than the true slope.
2. What does an estimated intercept term correspond to?
>>> The estimated outcome when the input is set to zero
3. What does an estimated slope term correspond to?
>>> The change in the estimated output when the input changes by one unit
4. You could create several datasets using different seed values and estimate the slope from each. These parameters will follow some distribution. What is the name used for this distribution?
>>> The sampling distribution of the parameter estimates
5. If the ð‘…-squared value is high, this indicates
>>> A good fit: the residual sum of squares is low compared to the total sum of squares. 
